Unknown 0:00
Um, terms of how regulators are trying to approach 1000 mitigate risk, basically, ultimately, which is the better jurisdiction to incorporate or to register a Dao? And why, if at all, so it's good to get a talk with you. Thank you for taking the time. Absolutely. So do you want to can you just say your name and just let me know, let us know what some of your experiences have been with Dallas?

Unknown 0:29
Yeah, of course. So before I was ever involved in any doubts, I actually worked on the Wyoming LLC law. So my first exposure besides knowing about ones that existed or only a few inherited a lot of drafting have been tested in 2019. We're gonna double check. But there are only a few examples even point to at that time. So conceptually, the point was development of development of a corporate architecture where decision making could be encouraged but also transparent. Basically, be able to speed decision making, but also to encourage, encourage, you know, corporate governance participation in a way and you know, we started out with thinking 99 and 99 person, Max for voting. Yes, if we turn this on, it's going to be really difficult for me to do this interview. Because it's really loud. But if I put fire

Unknown 1:52
let's count the animals. I can edit out obviously, the portions that have

Unknown 2:01
about ducky. amable we shouldn't be very long and the goal is that the key to getting well by geography I will see let's play you like this president for the baby and parents given someone a child because surely you can't

Unknown 3:30
it's better than the Nerf guns that my two four and six year olds just come from my dad.

Unknown 4:37
Want to sit right there with your blanket. Yeah no no I hear you. Sushi love. Yeah, you got a runny nose.

Unknown 4:58
The second trade places like I

Unknown 5:06
do whatever it takes to take him stand with him. Just reaching that him That's his favorite place to sit? Yes it is.

Unknown 5:20
Okay. All right. Can we continue? Yeah. All right. So I guess we left off with what experience you have with Dallas and

Unknown 5:29
right. So besides working in the LLC law, since then, I have interest dissipating in a number of different Dows one which has become a very successful model. Is the investment outlook. Some of the best examples out there are the LAO, spacious Dowth founders of each of those graded investments that I'm part of. It's really great to have transparency over deal flow and decision making for you know, investment allocation within funds. I think that's been a really great application. The second is just again for more transparent corporate governance, which is really the idea of the Dow LLC legislative initiative, which is, you know, now that we have all these blockchain companies from all around the world registering for LLCs in Wyoming after we passed the first few laws, okay, well, you know, creating the ability for people around the world to live in the same place to be able to still corporately govern together and the vote and participate in decision making, you know, in a decentralized manner, and not perhaps even all participating in live meetings, but having a period of time for which they can make their vote after reviewing materials that that actually was going to be a more and more common models, so many technology companies, not just not just digital asset companies, but especially digital asset companies were had decentralized teams. So yeah, so I've, I've participated in some companies that have used ours mostly for voting. And then in philanthropic data's so bringing transparency to philanthropic giving and donations, so being able to take in money into a treasury and have the members of the Dow deciding how, how either nonprofits or other eligible impact causes can receive funds and what they should do in order to verify that those funds have gone to the things they say they're supposed to go to I think those are pretty good examples. And then, you know, as an STC lecturer, I've been a part of multiple NFT Dows, where you know, your NF T's your membership token, and you have the ability to vote on our treasury funds or use or that's for branding. And marketing for the projects or in real life events or whatever it happens to be. We've also helped co found a new job called Archeo dial which is specifically for people who want to co own historic buildings and do the renovation. And upkeep together

Unknown 8:23
as it sounds pretty awesome. Sounds like you've got a pretty good knowledge of the different ways that jazz can be used and so far, so far. That's actually pretty great. So then, I guess that takes us to the next question. You've been involved in many doubts in southern Dallas succeed while others fail. So what do you think are the top three things that contribute to a Dallas failure or success or in other words, if you know if you don't want to go with me on 123 What is the perfect dowel look like to you?

Unknown 8:58
So let me talk through the different lines of thinking here, which is that the success of the Dow should be that the Dow has allowed speed and transparency in decision making within organizations. The failure of some bows is when the opposite happens for a variety of reasons, and that can be a too many members are actually not participating in the voting process, or the voting rights have been corrupted because too many people have banded together in the background. or purchase too many governance tokens which actually give them larger voting rights and a single person should be able to have and so I think, a perfect Dao that's still something that a lot of people are trying to work on, but in general, being able to have a Dao architecture where you have put together enough checks and balances to stop people from being able to usurp power and to be able to have, you know, clear governance in a way where people understand how they can participate that they can get rewarded for participating. But, you know, whales or people with an extraordinary amount of economic power can come in and buy all of the power. You know, that you can in public markets, for example, is the point of desks specifically to improve what we approve upon what we already have there in the marketplace. So you can get it down to function as well as the company does and what's the point? So, in an ideal world, the encouragement of participation so that you can continue to get voting members to engage and to participate, so there's good corporate governance. And yeah, being able to block out bad actors from the supreme control, I would say are the bigger ideals if I haven't been fully solved for and lost our convictions,

Unknown 11:03
yes. That's my experience. I've also seen a lot of that I've seen actually people equate Dows to just thinly veiled oligarchies or just companies, people are running companies and calling it a doubt. And it's very interesting that those are those strike at the core of what would make a good down proper governance model and thank you for sharing. So, the next question is, so Dallas can present risks to participants sectors and associated industries. What I mean by that is vendors and for Dow signs a contract with another entity. What do you believe is the legislative intent of many regulatory efforts for Dows? In other words, what are the risks that you see regulators recognize and want to address?

Unknown 11:55
So multiple arrests, but I would say right now the most salient risk is definitely that governance tokens can be considered securities, even though it's just a way of signifying your right to vote. So that is a really big danger. That's the SEC is fault, no one else. Many other countries in the world are very happy for corporate governance tokens not be regulated as security since they're not obviously serve a function, but that's also risk that comes from industry. So a really good example that I talked about on the panel up on the list which I will try to get you the audio for was Ukraine now so Ukraine, I was co founded by many different people. But on our friends, Alana Shevchenko is the main founder. She everyone that donated to Ukraine now was supposed to get a lot of tokens, is there governance tokens so that they could access the discord vote on how funds should be used? And then without her asking, or pursuing any of this, all of these exchanges started list listing the Love Token and so she spent many weeks calling every single exchange to try to get them to delist because she didn't want this to be something that people only donated to in order to make speculative money off. It's the governance token and that cause a lot of issues with how they were actually running the project. And they ended up having to remove the tokens from use completely. And basically use a notion board and a discard in order to manage their work and they couldn't even have the governance token as a part of it because it became such an issue. So that's a good example of where there are unfortunate risks due to governance tokens also possibly doing speculative assets or possibly securities depending on which regulator is looking at it. I would say the biggest risk of the Dow architecture just because it brings that part of the equation into it for dollars that don't intend for the governance token to have value. Now, if you look at the the fund model, were using a dowel for managing deal flow and making choices on where the investment is going. Now, the way that a lot of these funds start is they raise, they raise equity into the company but you can't. When you first invest, you get illiquid equity that you might not be able to, you know, cash out over three to five years depending on what you've agreed to. And so as the value of the equities and tokens that are invested into from the Dow goes up usually so does the price of the governance tokens. And so a lot of these models are offering you, you know, an equity to token liquidity event. So if you don't want to wait three to five years for your equity to become liquid or for a good time to sell and have some sort of equity based liquidity event, you can trade your equity for tokens and sell those on the public exchanges. Right. And so that's obviously creating the problem for Dows that don't want to have governance tokens and speculative assets. So I feel like that's the confusion between those different models and how it's good for some models and terrible for others is what is you know, going to be kind of like the the main sticking point I think from from a regulatory perspective and what regulators are trying to regulate for but they're trying to regulate things that are completely different. You know, obviously, regulations for investment funds, regulations for nonprofits, regulations for different different types of companies are all different. They're all trying to use the Dow and the Dow is being applied in completely different ways. So just that the functionality of the digital asset itself is I would say the biggest question, you know, can people create a token that cannot be listed on exchanges? That might be the only way to have like a governance token that will not be subject to? Yeah, security is regulation like how can you can you use a governance token model? Or no, if you go and solve their governance tokens, I don't know. But it's going to be required for certain certain types of entities to ever choose a data model.

Unknown 16:57
That definitely makes sense. I think that you know, you try and think about the perfect governance token if it can't be transferred, then you've got that does somewhat address the issue, but if you're transferring is giving a key to someone else and other person has and Adalat is anonymous, for example, then, how do you know that you know the Dow has it the governance token has been transferred, transferred pursuant to some sort of side letter outside of any sort of smart contracts? So I think people are ingenious and they'll keep on trying to find a way and I'm glad that people that do that are trying to find ways to keep ahead of everyone else. So then, the last question is, if you were part of a Dow, which I know you probably have many doubts, would you suggest they incorporate in one or another jurisdiction and if so, which one and why?

Unknown 17:54
It depends what they're trying to accomplish. I think yeah, if you if you have founders that are American or you seek to do business in America, and Wyoming is your best choice. I would say because of the governance token issue, you would have to be very, very careful about how your governance token interacts with public markets, you know, that you're never trying to create, you know, a fluctuating price for your governance token like anything that you can do to make it clear that the point of releasing a governance token is for voting and for participation and governance and it's has nothing to do with people being able to sell it. You don't create any model for people to be able to sell it but okay, but otherwise, you know, I see a lot of people that have been creating jazz in Switzerland or Caymans or a few other places, which I think makes sense, you know, better safe than sorry right now, with all the issues we're having with Gensler. Yeah, but it makes me sad to say that

Unknown 19:12
it seems like regulatory clarity in every jurisdiction would be good, but you know, it's piecemeal. And I know that the Wyoming DOL legislation was really good step in the right direction. So just kind of building upon just the last part of that last question. That was for governance. Now, what about a fund down? Do you know? Your experience which What if the token is going to be a security? Where would you incorporate it and why? If at all,

Unknown 19:47
so if it was meant to be a security then great, stay in the US by domain for sure. There's not very many places where there is actual data legislation. So you can try to run your company on a doubt but actually the way that companies function in terms of the legislation doesn't, doesn't talk about many different issues or the amount of people that you're giving votes to that direct relation specifically allows for participation. So it is I would struggle to say that you should start it out anywhere that doesn't have a dial law. That doesn't make any sense. But I know there's still a lot of people that are hesitant to even incorporate dials because they feel like even dial legislation doesn't doesn't cover the maybe 1000s or 10s of 1000s of members that they want to be able to vote. There's no legislation that covers that right now. You know,

Unknown 20:51
the next step? Yeah. So I think that covers all of our questions. wanted to say thank you for taking the time. I know there's a lot going on and I really appreciate you and I'm sure that the Dow appreciates and and yeah thanks again. Awesome.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai