Paul McCulloch  01:50
Well, welcome Luke Stokes to the conversation. I really, really appreciate you taking the time to sit here and talk about DAOs. And before we start, just if you can introduce yourself and actually talk a little bit about your experience with DAOs I think it'll help everyone set the pace of the conversation.

Luke Stokes  02:24
Yeah, for sure. So my name is Luke Stokes. I've been in technology since I don't know I built my first websites in 1996. Computer science background, been very passionate about how technology can be used to kind of create a world we all want to live in. And for about 10 years, I ran an E commerce company. through that I got very familiar with all the different payment pieces from acquirers payment gateways, merchant accounts, credit cards. Around  2013 I got excited about an alternative payment mechanism known as the Bitcoin network and got very interested in that and very interested in the governance mechanisms and really the human motivational psychological systems and the game theory that could actually drive change in a significant way. And through various kinds of explorations of other blockchains, I eventually joined the Steam community in 2016, which kind of runs as a DAO of sorts: the token holders elect the validators of the network. And I was part of the drama there, when a billionaire came in and bought up the company bought up the main website and bought up 20% of the tokens by the name of Justin sun, and he lied to another billionaire, CZ and got him to vote with all the customer tokens and try to take over the network. And that's where we had an amazing DAO kind of drama story. It's one of the most interesting stories in crypto actually. And we ended up creating HIVE. So we actually, we could talk a little bit more about that which is quite interesting. Also helped because I was involved in the STEEM/HIVE ecosystem, which is a form of consensus called delegated proof of stake where the token holders get to vote in based on their stake who the validators are for the network. And that's a Dan Larimer project along with BitShares and Protoshares and all that. So I was part of Eos DAC, which was one of the first community on block producers and DAC enablers. Prior to the DAO term, Dan Larimer came up with the DAC term, decentralized autonomous company or corporation. We used it as community and EOS DAC  was one of the founding block producers on the EOS network. And EOS also runs on DPOS also another Dan Larimer project. through that whole process, we were trying to facilitate creating DAO's or DAC's on the EOS network. We ran ourselves as a DAO and DAC and we ran into some interesting challenges there as well where the the community essentially Well, we can get into that but they took over the DAO and no one got paid for years. So that was quite quite interesting. And we can try and talk a little bit more about that. I also was involved in just consulting and advising for various DAO type projects. I got involved in the DEVEXDAO as well, as you know, I was working with them for about a year until they had some restructuring of their legal entity, the Emerging Technology Association, and they asked me to step up to participate on that board, which meant I could no longer be a member of the DEVEXDAO so I had to step down with that. And in addition to the different projects, eventually around the end of 2018, I found out about a project run by a company called DAPPX which raised $5.7 million and they were private, normal private company, building open source technology, well closed source technology that eventually became open source technology. And they with the help of the community, they created the technology that eventually got launched as the FIO protocol, the F/I/O protocol, the foundation for inter wallet operability and that's a usability protocol that I've been the managing director for for over two years now. And we're basically just trying to make cryptocurrency easier to use for everyone. It's also a delegated proof of stake also runs as a DAO, meaning the token holders get to vote and create kind of a list of preferred board members and then the existing nonprofit Cayman? entity then uses that list to select the new board members. Those board members select the steering committee, the steering committee then makes decisions on worker proposals that are submitted by the community. And that's how we kind of decide how the Treasury is used. So that's kind of a brief, compact version of the major DAO projects I've been involved in. I've seen examples of like with EOS DAC for example, where we created a legal wrapper called DeCoco, which was also which was actually in Switzerland. And then just seeing like the community drama between that legal entity going a certain direction where the community wants to go another direction and then other people that want to do something completely different. It has nothing to do with our original intentions. You know, we wanted to be community, a block producer and DAC enabler, and they were like "make token price go up", "get on more exchanges":. And so that was interesting division we had as well. So yeah, so I'm just super passionate again about blockchain technology and how we can use it to create a world we all want to live in. I should also mention I worked with Brock Piece for about six to nine months trying to create an EOS foundation DAO. And we work, we tried to work with block one to do that. Block. One, of course, was the company that did the largest ICO raise in history at the time, over $4 billion to launch the EOS technology that later became the EOS network. And so that was an interesting exploration of DAOs that eventually didn't work out. But later now we have the EOS network foundation years later, and that's actually happening, but it's kind of how I got connected to Brock and the whole community in the Puerto Rican space.

Paul McCulloch  07:26
And it's a it's a good space to be in. I'm really glad that we were able to link up here. And I mean, you've definitely got a tremendous amount of experience with DAOs. And it's, I mean, some of the issues that you've touched upon, and I'm really excited to dive into in a little bit - things about getting paid, or what happens when the legal wrapper decides to go one direction and the DAO wants to go a different direction. These are all questions that ultimately the white paper will dive into jurisdiction by jurisdiction but also the nuances to each of the places where you can register your DAO will really impact some of those decisions as well. 

Luke Stokes  08:11
I would I would actually love for you to do a piece that related to the STEEM/HIVE hive story. I have a post I'll send you which is like how STEEM became HIVE. It really became a big deal. I was one of the top 21 validators, which are kind of the decision makers for the network at the time. And my phone kind of I wake up early in the morning get notification on my phone, I'm like, Oh, what the heck was that? But I got three notifications. It was my main producer node went down. My backup Producer node which is geographically located somewhere else went down and my seed node went down. All three of them went down and I'm like, Okay, that's a network failure. The network is down. So I got my computer on, I sat down, I was like, rubbing my super early on, like what's going on? And I look and the whole network had been taken over. The validators were all these Sockpuppet accounts, it was 20 accounts that weren't real accounts I'd never seen before. And so once I figured out what happened, it was  a particular proxy got a bunch of power and they basically took over the network. So I turned on my camera and I just started like, talking to the camera going holy moly, what just happened? You know, we're about to see if delegated proof of stake is vulnerable, like something just happened and I put that video out there on YouTube Coinbase picked it up Vitalik retweeted it was like hundreds of retweets on this concept, like everyone's watching going, "Whoa, what just happened" to that and then they put my my YouTube video in there, but it was a super dramatic moment where people are kind of going what's happening. But what was really interesting to me is, so to back up a little bit, they bought STEEMIT incorporated, which still owned 20% of the governance tokens, which is a ton at that time. And that was a huge, long standing issue with the community at one point they the 80% and they were never spending that 60% in the way that we felt they should so there was always this animosity between the community the block producers, the actual network itself, the DAO and this company that had over too much control in the situation. So they bought the main website steemit.com They bought the 20% tokens and bought the company. And they kind of assumed that that means they own the network and we said no you didn't buy a blockchain a blockchain is a decentralized permissionless open source toolset that we all choose volunteered to participate in. And so there's a lot of drama back and forth between our community and Justin SUN and his you know, group they he they did some stuff that really frustrated us, kind of implying they actually one point there was a post on an exchange that he owned that said, Oh yeah, you can swap all your STEEM tokens over to Tron and we're like the hell we are. We're not part of the Tron network. What are you talking about? So there's some things he did that really annoyed us and eventually we got to a point where we just were at an impasse call after call, we couldn't come to consensus. So we all decided together and we each individually as block producers wrote our own reason for this. And then we collectively wrote a single document that we also published, and we froze their tokens. We basically said we are responsible for the security of the network. All of our constituents that vote for us and put us into this position are telling us you need to do something, the network's that's you know, at risk. So until you can come to the table and talk to us like adults. We're going to freeze your stake you don't go voting with them. We're not taking your money we're not doing we're just telling you, hey, we need to talk this is not okay. And at first he posted a very famous like Oh angry thing and then of course he deleted it and posted this other thing. But it's on a blockchain the STEEM social media platform is in the HIVE platforms on the blockchain, so we got to have a permanent record of what he said. But then he later was like, in two weeks, we're gonna have a town hall. It's going to be great. We're going to talk about this and he ended up using that two weeks to lie to CZ and do all this stuff to take over the network. CZ shows up and goes What the frick just happened. What did I just do because everyone's mad at him. So I wrote a whole blog post and sent it to him and said, Hey, CZ, here's exactly what you did. Here's how you got lied to, you know, blah, blah, blah. And he owned it. To his credit. He's like, Wow, I'm so sorry. There were 20 Something other hard forks that that company asked Binance to roll out. You know, we didn't think it was any different. He ended up following me only follows about 1500 people on Twitter and he still he still follows me. He's got like millions of followers and he follows up with my little account, which I always think is hilarious. But it was yeah, it was a really amazing moment. And I've talked to a bunch of people in the space where they're like, I remember that STEEM/HIVE drama and you guys you guys basically your community won against billionaires, because you have the right of right of free association and disassociation. We kind of took all the account balances and airdropped a new token and excluded 300 Something accounts that attacked the network. And so they you know, they still have their STEEM network, they still have their STEEM tokens, they can go do their own thing but all the applications that mattered all the block producers that really cared about the network, we all kind of just went over here and STEEM basically became you know, Justin SUN's personal database.

Paul McCulloch  12:46
That's, I mean, there's so many we do need to dive into that. I'm also writing a few papers about the jurisdiction of decentralized activities. You know, if you're a validator, who owns the validator, who's validating, you know, where if the money is coming out of the validator for to two different wallets, sometimes that's happening. You know, then are those people involved where the jurisdiction where the servers are validated the servers and people validating and then operationally where is the operation said to take place? There's going to be I mean, that's kind of the next stage regulator is going to have to understand the architecture and the governance structures. So I think that it's also great that you guys were able to do what you did and watching governance make its way onto decentralized networks. You guys were ahead of the curve, but 


Luke Stokes  13:38
I mean, I mean, you know,the interesting thing to the servers I ran, like I said, they're geographically distributed meaning and and many of them were private, meaning nobody knows where I ran my validator. So from a jurisdictional perspective, it's like, I mean, I can tell you now I had one in Germany. I had one in you know, I think Finland I, you know, it's like I had them in different places, like no one would even know they were done in such a way that they were private. So it's, it adds additional complexity. And that actually reminds me we talked about lawyers and that during the early days of the EOS network, and I was just on a panel with Brock last night, we were talking about this on a live stream. There was this thing called the ECAF. And it was the EOS community arbitration forum, where we were basically going to implement what the original, so the EOS network launched with a constitution, which was really kind of pretty cool. And had this concept of not code as law but the intent of code is law. Meaning if we can all agree that something happened that shouldn't have, we can fix it, we can move tokens back we can fix, you know, tokens Get lost, you know, we can actually you know, as block producers, kind of with the god key together, if we agree, we can make changes to the network. So the ECAF was supposed to be this arbitration forum between if two people disagreed you could work it out and the block producers can make a decision to like, you know, listen to ecaf and say, hey, they made a ruling. We're gonna go ahead and move these tokens or do what we need to do which otherwise wouldn't be possible on normal blockchains The problem was, all the ECAF rulings were basically criminal cases was like this. I lost my money and give me my money back and we're like arbitration means to people like you have no other defendant. There's no other person coming to arbitration. And it got so bad that it got to a point where they wanted us to null out somebody's keys. And we were just like, we can't just swap someone's keys that kind of breaks the whole point of a blockchain like if you can't, you know, and so I had our lawyers do a whole like explanation of how it would put us as a block producer at risk. If we were to approve this multisig decision to change, you know, basically take property from someone essentially. And it was that moment after that blog post went live that most of the block producers just kind of decided and actually I should I should back up there was a EOS Alliance, this one group had a thing where they said, if you agree with EOS DAC, vote for them if you agree with EOS Dublin, which is just another block producer, they found that kind of supporter ECAF the way it was vote for EOS Dublin, and the EOS Dublin lost so many votes so quickly, they said Stop, no, no, we don't want to be the example of this. And so, so yeah, from that moment on, everyone ignored all the ECAF rulings and ECAF basically ceased to exist. It was kind of interesting.

Paul McCulloch  16:11
I mean, alright, so I mean, well, we'll get I'll get to the quite the next question in a second. But I also have to make a note, I mean, in terms of validators, I was working with a few others created node validator security guidelines for making sure that people setting up validators properly, but also, aside from having kind of a compliance vantage point. In terms of law, you guys actually you said you spoke to lawyers, you have that paper, I would love to see that paper because on the other hand, six months ago, New York court courts ruled that you can actually do serve as a process temporary restraining order on a public key and then a couple months ago, someone else another court said that you can actually serve a DAO within their discord forum. So very interesting things going on in the space. So then the questions become alright well, if a DAO exists as a as an entity and they want to register as a legal entity, ultimately, we're trying to find out the focus of this where should- -  the question was posed - where should the DAO incorporate, if at all? And so that kind of takes us to our first question, which is going to be very broad. I know we've already touched upon a lot of these things. Where some DAO's succeed where others fail. What do you think of the top three things that contribute to a DAO's failure or success? Or in other words, if you'd rather not enumerate what is a perfect DAO look like to you?

Luke Stokes  17:37
Nice. I actually would like to go through it's probably easier for me on the bullet points and then and then the perfect DAO would be an interesting to explore. I think, as far as what causes DAO's to fail. The number one thing that I mentioned to most people is apathy. DAO's actually require intense participation. And when you have apathy when you have people just kind of go ah, I'm just not going to vote. I'm not gonna participate. You give the opportunity for the D which is supposed to be decentralized, become centralized it the D, as I explained, it is no single point of failure. And generally, when you have apathy of people not doing what they're supposed to be doing not voting as they're supposed to vote. You have maybe you know, only one person submitting a proposal and there's no counterproposals. Then it's like well, I guess we're just gonna go with that even if it's a terrible provider. So just that apathy lack of participation, I think is a big part. Another one is, frankly, the software. building software in on a blockchain is really hard. Like I said, I've been coding since 1996. It is by far the most difficult programming environment you can imagine because you're literally dealing with an immutable ledger. So when they make changes to this ledger, and all the API's that connect to that ledger, those changes can be pretty cumbersome and challenging. And you're building your software on top of that, so it's kind of like you're swapping out the engine of a plane while it's still flying. It's just really complicated. And so what we ran into with EOS DAC as an example, we had a very complex permission system that had a 10 of 12 multisig of nine of 12 multisig and a SEVEN OF 12 multisig. Well a permission for I think it was either the nine or the seven was supposed to be used for making payments. But the software wasn't ready for that yet. So we were using kind of The Master Key of 10 of 12 in order to like make payments because because we could, unfortunately when the drama happened with the community, and there was like, oh, there was drama. I know you've you've experienced some stuff with DEVXDAO, but there was literally death threats. To the community members in the Korean community. There were just it was bad. And so there were a bunch of people who didn't really believe in or understand what we were doing and why we existed. And they had this perception in their mind that if I buy EOS DAC tokens, you're gonna go create a block producer, which you did with EOS DAC, and then you're gonna give me all those rewards and I'm going to make more money. It basically like this, this security, basically, and we were like, No, we're not going to distribute the rewards, the rewards are meant to go towards our development of the DAC factory. This kind of like, this is why we exist. And so the drama happened to the point where they ended up taking over the DAO because they had enough tokens to do so. And because we couldn't reach the 10 of 12 threshold, not only because of apathy, but also because of this takeover attempt. Nobody got paid and after a year, it was kind of like no, we won't do anymore. So that was a big problem. So I would say that the technology and having kind of, too constringent of multisig. Another thing that I think is challenging is again, like exactly what you're touching on the relationship between the legal entity and the DAO. I've seen that be challenging with you know, the eta and DXD. I've seen that be challenging with DeCoco and EOS DAC hasn't been so challenging with FIO protocol, because, you know, frankly, the Cayman entity doesn't really do much. They're just a multisig on the Treasury and we explained the budget and they walked through the budget and we have, you know, obviously we have our board meetings and everything. And they're pretty happy with the way the community is going. So they every month they decide, yep, we agree. And we they sign an msig send money to me, the managing director so that I can send it out to the whole team. And we do that actually all in Atlassian software with JIRA and Confluence. So we're not limited by the blockchain technology. Everything's there. It's all public, every single payment that got approved. We even have things the steering committee will type approve in a comment and if you get three of those automatically through the workflow approves the worker proposal, or the change to the proposal, and that flows through to a spreadsheet automatically. So our whole budgeting is done, all transparently as the worker proposals are approved and the budgets are approved. So it's all pretty fascinating stuff. But we're not limited by blockchain by by just choosing to not have that part on the blockchain as long as everyone's happy with the outcome. And, you know, you'd have to hack Atlassian servers to go modify comments and stuff and approval rankings so it's all there transparently kind of like a blockchain would be anyway. So yeah, that's that's an interesting one as far as like what a good DAO would look like. Some argue a Dow has to be completely anonymous, and you can't even know who the people are for it to really work. I'm not quite on board with that yet. I'm curious about it. The whole dark DAO concept. I'm currently and this is a little esoteric, but I'm currently into the perspective that a DAO is like a consciousness evolution accelerator. It forces humans to not only not lie to others, but not lie to themselves. When they put out a proposal and they say I'm worth this much money and the community is like, Nope, you really aren't, then that forces them to reevaluate who they really are and their own ego and their own identity. So I look at a good DAO, for me, a successful DAO is frankly with a bunch of people that are fairly spiritually enlightened, that have a very good sense of awareness and consciousness, and it's one of the reasons for the last, you know, six plus months I've been studying consciousness and focusing on that, because you get the technology so advanced, but the human container to hold that is so not that it doesn't work. And I realize you have to have like, really good humans involved in a really effective DAO, for it to work. And I've actually seen that really good DAO's actually a really awesome people involved. And Eden on EOS, I don't even talk about Eden on EOS is another amazing DAO, where they're using a political playoff system as described by Dan Larimer is "more equal animals" book, where you do a proof of human process with a zoom call that gets minted as an NFT. And you have this kind of peace treaty everyone agrees to and you kind of the way you decide who the leadership is, is you go through a process where you put everyone together and randomize them, put them into individual groups, they do a zoom call, and they kind of deliberate on why they think they why they should get the Treasury and if people agree, they make it to the next round on a two thirds plus one vote, and they keep doing that process until they eventually get to the kind of the the board of sorts and then the the main people. So there's all these cool experiments that are happening in the space that I think are really important.

Paul McCulloch  23:51
I think that I as someone who worked for the multilateral, multilateral development bank that was writing laws or helping write laws or former Soviet countries transitioning into market democracies, I mean, it's how do you create a governance structure? How do you make sure it works? How do make sure it stays for a long time and adapts properly? And you know, it's a it's a fun exercise and there's more than one way to skin a cat, obviously, but I'm really very interested in hearing some of the examples that you talked about, even after the conversation, and then exploring what might be the optimal and then if it's optimal for one type of DAO or another, then, well  ultimately this paper can say, Okay, if you have, if you're just straight governance, DAO, then it may be better to register here. But if you're a fund DAO or if you're going to do be another kind of DAO, you may want to incorporate there and do the take these other activities.

Luke Stokes  24:52
I think it should be noted, and if you haven't already, maybe I can even get you to talk with him. But the the Shapeshift example is a really good one where they started as a private company, a normal company, and then they fully just disbanded as a company and went to a full DAO model. And you know, when you listen to Eric Voorhies talking about and I've had multiple conversations with Eric about this at various conferences, and I've talked to his team as well. They're like, you, if you have a company, you don't have a DAO, and they're very passionate about this idea that a real DAO is not hindered by the governance systems of a country or jurisdiction. Now, of course, you and I know about joint and several liability and like, why, you know, they'll just say, well, you're just an association and based on who your members are, we'll just claim you in our jurisdiction and therefore we can go after you. If we need to. I don't know it's it's one of those things where it's like, uh, I super respect and appreciate Eric's position. And I frankly, like want to believe he's right. And I want to believe that as long as the DAO doesn't do anything kind of wrong, then generally I don't think the government is going to have or whatever jurisdiction is going to have enough consensus support to attack them, I guess. It's, you know, it's the moment they do something that they can be like, Ooh, see, that was wrong. Now we can come after you. So that's, again, back to kind of like if you have really good people, the governance almost doesn't matter. But even if you have amazing governments that you know, you got bad people, they're gonna they're gonna hack their way around it and find loopholes.

Paul McCulloch  26:27
Yeah, actually, you bring up an interesting subject I, there's one company that they knew that their token was a security and a governance token, and they knew that they need to file for REG S so they did their reg S filing with the SEC. They got up and running. They were fully get go operate, operative. And then they wrote a letter to the SEC said, Okay, now we're dissolving everything because we're up and running and decentralized network so we don't need to be an entity anymore. They went through all that work to do things properly. Pursuant to regulation before actually, just being purely decentralized was very interesting. So I mean, yeah, that's the that's, I should probably mentioned that as well in the paper. A lot of a lot of good points for this paper. 

Luke Stokes  27:15
It's actually kind of similar to what happened with the FIO protocol in the early days. DAPPXx was the company in Denver that took on raised funds, $5.7 million, led by Binance labs, and many others. And they built the software. And when the community came and said, Okay, we're going to do the Cayman nonprofit. They're saying, essentially, we're going to purchase the software for tokens that once we launch this network will have an allocation of tokens that go to this organization for this purchase. And once the software was purchased, then it was open sourced. And then of course DAPPX now has the tokens and they were able to distribute those pro rata to the investors and then essentially dissolve the company. Saying, well, there's no real reason for us to exist anymore. This is now open source, it's running by the community and the community goes on and does what they want to do with it. So it's kind of another interesting model and we just Fenwick and West and some of the best like legal, you know, in the US and other and other jurisdictions were guiding this process along going "this is the cleanest way to do it legally, and actually accomplish your goal of having a fully decentralized open source network run by the community that has governance tokens people can get access to."

Paul McCulloch  28:23
I like that you were working with some firms and getting some legal involved in that. It's very important to talk to lawyers. Now, regulators are catching up. So that's the first thing - lawyers can talk to you about how to try and get something done. But regulators are the ones that ultimately have to say like, Well, I agree or disagree. So I think

Luke Stokes  28:42
I would say a a shout out again to Fenwick and West because of all the different law firms that I remember, DAPPX was talking to you back then. Many of them were like, "well, we can't really agree on any one thing that you could do", you know, it was like, they would just keep telling you what you can't do and it's like, "Okay, that's great", but because none of them want to, you know, be on the line with saying this process is okay. And that that again, goes to your point about we need regulatory clarity, we need to we need clarity from the regulators on like, what is and what's not okay, so that the lawyers can clearly say good now I have a tool set to advise my clients otherwise, they're just like, look, I don't know it's it's not clear.

Paul McCulloch  29:21
That takes us perfectly to the next question. You know, we need that clarity from regulators. And the next question is yes, DAO's can present risks to participants, sectors and vendors and associated industries. So what do you believe is the legislative intent of many of the regulatory efforts for DAOs? In other words, what are the risks that you think regulators recognize and want to address?

Luke Stokes  29:48
I think that it's pretty clear that and this is again, why EOS had this kind of like "intent of code as law". It's pretty clear that there are very many bad actors in the in the blockchain space. And you'll see this in any kind of emergent technology thing. We saw this in the early internet, you know, there was this narrative the internet's only used for you know, child traffickers and pornographers, and all these terrible people. So any cutting edge technology often gets this kind of bad rap and in some cases, it's justified and there's been many many millions and millions and millions of dollars that have been stolen by scams, scam artists that literally write code and they create DAOs of sorts and then they have this backdoor loophole where they're just like, Haha, rug pulled, you took all your money. And this happens again and again and again. And I obviously you know, if you're a regulator or you know, you are working government, and you have these constituents, and they're like, Hey, I just lost my money. They're gonna come to you like they normally do and think that Hey, Mommy and Daddy government is going to bail us out. You know, someone harmed me and you need to make it right. And they're used to this pattern and so they're thinking okay, how do we control these systems to make sure our constituency doesn't get scammed? And to a degree, I think that's important. I mean, we see a lot of situations where things are supposed to be regulated and aren't and they go badly. So I get that but I also just want to see regulation that works. And so what I like about the blockchain space, and what the experiments were doing in regulation here is that with smart contracts and other mechanisms, and bonds and slashing and other concepts, you can actually make sure that before the crime happens, it's just not possible to do the crime like you design systems and motivational systems where it's more expensive to defraud someone than it is to just do the good thing. And therefore you don't need all the layers of regulation and all the different legal costs and everything that goes with compliance there, because it's just not possible. So I think that's ultimately where we're trying to go as a technology community. But at the same time, I understand the regulator's are saying great until you get there. How do we stop all these scams? How do you have all these people that are just you know, doing terrible things? And as far as like, the Howey Test and all these, like, in my opinion, really outdated regulations for how we're going to manage whether or not something's a security or an investment. You know, I just I feel like they're kind of not catching up. And also, I think, in some ways, it's a little bit prohibitive in that. I can only be an accredited investor if I want to participate in some of these things, but I can go buy a lottery ticket. I mean, that's just ridiculous. Like, and so I feel like they're just they're not being consistent with their claim to want to protect people. Because then when there's some problem, you know, they'll fine the organization a gazillion dollars it's like the victims get that money or it's just going into the coffers of the government. So, you know, they auction off the stuff and they keep the winnings. It's like, come on, and so I get a little frustrated with what I perceive is their intent, but I'd like to say in a perfect world, they are trying to protect the consumer, and they're going about it with the tools that they have. And I think that the work you're doing Paul and others is really important because it helps people recognize there are new tools we can use that kind of make your job a little bit invalid. And so that's okay with me personally. And it just again, instead of reacting to a crime after it happens, which is much of what the justice system does today, we can use systems to actually prevent crime from being possible. And that's the part I get very excited about is that the systems that you're involved in have certain rules like I can't double spend a Bitcoin it's not possible. The system, the network that I'm in makes that impossible, unless you have 51% of the network to attack the network. So those kind of align motivational systems that are built into the actual governance of the protocol and the network itself is where I get excited about because I think that's the future we need to go towards.

Paul McCulloch  33:44
Awesome. That was a great answer. And, you know, ideally, smart contracts to get rid of the need for lawyers and regulators and everything covers itself and some idealistic decentralized, decentralized world but accounting for

Luke Stokes  34:00
The problem is always the humans right? You get the regulatory capture, revolving door politics you get you well, you get nepotism. Well, hey, you know, my my brother runs a thing over here. Let's get the contract to him. So yeah, we are trying to have physics and math, run the security of things, and then we can agree on how we want to use that tool. 

Paul McCulloch  34:17
Yep. Actually, on a side note, I understand that in terms of consciousness, you said you were studying consciousness and I've been studying a lot about present being present. In a present moment and really appreciating the mat for what it was and I've asked myself when you're part of a DAO, what does being present mean? Does it mean just always monitoring the discord? Does it mean always, like, it's or just always having it in the back of your mind and always ideating  and trying to be an active part of the governance ready to jump in and make sure that this ship is righted if it needs to be and be..presence in a DAO is very

Luke Stokes  34:57
It's very challenging because it's it's the other side of the spectrum of the kind of apathy being very dangerous, but it can also be, that can be dangerous as well. Because then you get people that just like, live and breathe it and that's all they do, and they're responding to every single thing. And it can become a popularity contest for those people who are just seen get the thought of as being more effective in terms of whatever they're doing in a meritocritous situation. And maybe they're not, they're just there. Just show up more than anyone else. And so like, I've seen that as well. So yeah, it's interesting. It's like, again, on the spectrum, we've got to balance in all things.

Paul McCulloch  35:37
Yep. Yeah. And I guess so this takes us to our last question. If you were part of a DAO, which yes, you're part of number of DAO's would you suggest they incorporate in one or another jurisdiction? If so, which one and why?

Luke Stokes  35:54
Yeah, I've been asked this question as a consultant many times and I've never had a great answer. I generally just start listing off all the ones I've ever heard of that people have used, you know, it's like, oh, yeah, Cayman, BVI. There's even you know, obviously Switzerland, you know, and a lot of... Wyoming's got some amazing laws now, and there's some other different jurisdictions... And I thankfully, as a programmer, and as someone who's worked in the industry, I can just defer to experts in law, and I just say talk to the lawyers because I don't really know. That's been my answer up to this point. That said, I'm constantly asking my friends that know more, a lot more about that than I do kind of what the latest is, but then I also I also kind of just like I would ask, you know, why do you need a blockchain? What are you actually doing that needs Byzantine fault tolerance, like what are you actually doing that's like, going to be attacked in some way that you need this third party validation and verification of all your interactions, all your activities all your transactions runs, Or smart contract runs in a way that you would need a blockchain? I kind of asked a similar thing. Well, why would you need a legal jurisdiction like what are the types of things you're going to be doing that would, in any way raise the interest of a regulator or jurisdiction to think that you know this is a problem because like, we've had, you know, like private investor clubs, and like, there's things that people have done and coops and like the people have been doing DAO's for a really long time without using that term. And they generally are fine. Like nobody kind of gets mad that you have a group of people that you know, pool together and have a bowling league or whatever, right, like people, a group of people with a shared goal has been a thing for a long time. You know, it's just that the tools they're using now to do that are a little different with DAOs and autonomous nature of being able to do smart contracts. But yeah, I would, I would kind of ask them like, Okay, what is it you're trying to do kind of like you're inferring earlier, the type of activity that you want to accomplish as a group of people is going to have different jurisdictional risk. And there's going to be different participation risk, depending on what you're doing. And so also to, as you make up like, a board, for example, with the FIO protocol board. We trying to be careful to not have too many people on the board from one jurisdiction, because then that jurisdiction say majority of your board is from our place. So we're just going to claim you know, you're kind of, we're gonna You gotta follow our rules, because of the majority of the board members kind of I live here, you know, so things like that, I think, is important to keep in mind. And then as far as the actual organization itself, it again goes to like, what it's going to do. So I'll give you an example of one of the things that we were told to do for FIO protocol is we have the nonprofit Cayman entity, then we have a holding company, that's a wholly owned subsidiary, that is a normal company. And then we have kind of the doing business as FIO protocol, Inc company below the holding company. And so that company doesn't own anything about the Treasury at all. And that company is the company that you see anytime there's an agreement that has to be signed with another organization. But because if they get sued there don't have any of the tokens in the treasury because that's held by the holding company, and the holding company isn't a nonprofit, so the holding company can do whatever it needs to. Whereas if you, at least in Cayman, if you're going to do a nonprofit, you'd have to like KYC every single person that interacted with the organization right? So they have all these complexities in Cayman. Well, then they updated the vast laws. And now we're like, the network gives us some tokens. Those look like newly minted tokens and might under a really interesting interpretation of the vast laws might mean that we'd have to be get the money money, transmitter licensing done, which would just kind of be a big pain. So then we were recommended to create a BVI. So now we have the BVI and we kind of moved a bunch of contracts over and started using BVI. And partly at some point, you look at all this and go, Man, we're just wasting a whole lot of money and a whole lot of lawyer time and a lot of documentation for like for what like who cares everything we're doing, we're doing in the benefit of people with this great service this this usability layer for cryptocurrency that everybody wants. So there's a part of me it gets a little jaded and I sometimes want to just say, and this is actually I remember this happened when EOS stack was pushing hard to do DeCoCo which is the Switzerland legal entity. I kept pushing back saying show me case law where DAO's have been, you know, put under the under the hammer of the regular regulators for doing something bad and at the time, there was none. Now there is some but then there was no I'm kind of like why are we spending all this money and wasting all this time and actually putting the DAO at risk, and it ended up becoming a risk because they were looking at who is the member of the legal entity and how were they also getting paid as worker proposal members in the DAO. And that created this division where it's like, oh, it's like us against them. And that eventually I think that's what caused the kind of failure of the DAO. And so I think when you introduce a legal entity, there really should be a lot of separation because you know, that itself can be a systemic risk for the DAO, not the legal regulators coming in suing you or telling you you know, you gotta shut down or whatever, it's really just the risk of that being perceived improperly can actually harm your community. And so I've seen that as well. So it's a very difficult, complicated question. I would defer to legal experts, lawyers, and I would say, as you said, I would say, depending on what kind of DAO you want to do, there's going to be different benefits in different places. But ultimately, I would like to get to a point where we have, and  I know you and I've talked about this, some DAO standards that regulators can understand to basically say, okay, these rules are in place in the actual code itself. So very basically these concerns we would normally have to regulate against in a corporation just simply don't exist, so I can just be okay with that. And then now let's go a little deeper to these weaknesses in your governance model. These attack vectors, those are places where someone can commit fraud, or be fraudulent or whatever. Those are, I'll use it as a perfect example, You know, when information was given to the Binance team, and they were told to vote with all the user tokens to they were told, because you're going to prevent some attack that's about to happen, but they actually were the ones causing the attack when all was done. And they didn't even realize it was like those tokens were not locked for 13 weeks. So the users that had the tokens were like, Oh, I'd like to withdraw my tokens now they're like, oh, no, we didn't even know that we can't. So so like when when bad actors in a DAO governance model start lying to other people in order to getting them to vote in certain ways. Like that type of fraud then becomes something I think regulators can hold people accountable to in different jurisdictions, but it's just like it becomes a different problem once we have the code in place that they can trust, and they have kind of a lexicon to look to and say, Oh, that's that type of governance model. We know how to deal with it. We know what the risks are, and we don't have to worry about that happening.

Paul McCulloch  42:47
Yep. And you know, I have to say, that was a great answer. It was the kind of answer I would also expect a lawyer to give because the lawyer is saying "it depends". And there are so many nuances that when I asked the question, I had a little grin on my face because it's a trick question. There is no perfect answer. Yeah, having the white paper that actually outlines the plusses and minuses of registration and then by jurisdiction, nuances of how it impacts the operations. I think it'd be very valuable not only for the DAO's but also for regulators to be able to understand what frameworks can exist and also the frameworks that already exist to the technology itself. I mean, something so simple as like an ISO standard. Or, you know, you're looking at how OECD principles of corporate governance, they can also apply to the DAO. There's so many different legal frameworks that can apply that really, you know, what is the business of the DAO, what is the jurisdiction of the DAO, what are the people want to do? How is our the tokens developed, deployed? There's so many different nuances that you hit the nail on the head, you know, you it's a case by case basis, and sometimes it's good to be registered and sometimes it's not. And I think that you know, hopefully this paper will serve as a pretty good reference point for all the regulators that I know I'm talking to and a few others are talking to, so that they can actually understand the context, the trajectory, the nuances, maybe have a little bit more. Be more clear, in what they need. And in the meantime, when people conduct fraud and a DAO or intimidation, I know one DAO where someone is going around threatening everyone else and you know, intimidating and blocking things that it sounds a lot like racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations. Like, can you bring a RICO violation against someone on a DAO.

Luke Stokes  44:42
It's really interesting question as it relates to the regulators as well. I think a big challenge is even just like, there's so much jargon, you know, there's so many technical terms like what are these things different, what are these different consensus mechanisms? What are the risks to the consensus mechanisms? How can that impact you know, the DAO that it's built on that particular layer, or that blockchain and I was part of the I think, was the IEEE was doing a blockchain lexicons thing and I was in it for months and I just was like, ah, it was just, I felt like such a waste of time all these meetings and I'm actually dropped out of it because I was just like, I got better things to do. So. hats off to all you people who get write white papers and do lexicons and do standards, because it's really important, but some of us who are just building so fast we think like, oh, this takes too long.

Paul McCulloch  45:29
Yep, well, I appreciate the hats off especially once they get this done, and appreciate your time to the conversation. And I think that concludes the interview portion of this discussion. 

Luke Stokes  45:32
Awesome. 